Aug 18 sacrament meeting
normal.response to terrible events - anger at God, to say why me, or why this terrible event?

 though the other possibility is that God Loves us so much that he'd let us suffer and experience all manner of negativity if it would help us grow....how do you tell this to a family that loses a child? or a husband and wife that divorce?


so I suppose that means millions suffering death in terrible ways, or ongoing hunger, or rampant disease, and life altering sadness must some how ultimately being us more good and happiness. this caused my brain to just about break. ... for example, why is it that so many people have some odd need to suffer hunger? why does disease have to cause so much pain and sadness?

maybe it's our need to be in a world with a high amount of chaos? what growth do we aquire by experiencing pain and misery? 

part of me has the habit of immediately choosing bitterness, and frustration that life is the way it is. Anither part of me makes me realize that it seems that experience itself is the thing we may be after. what can I learn from asthma? my immediate response is  nothing, it's a complete waste of time. maybe the optimist would.say that it helps me appreciate breathing clearly, but can't I already appreciate it enough without needing the contrast? am I to learn from both the asthma and the management of it? raw experience. maybe that's the goal.

the thing that seals it for me is the fact that God knew how we'd respond. he could have just sorted us like a giant set of cards into our final places.

so life is about learning to make deliberate choices and the acquisition of experiences. some experiences have more value than others.


so how do we make a good choice? how do we know which experiences have lasting value? how do we detect value? some times things are handed to us and we are told they have value. some things seem to have inherant value.

an American flag is a good example. it is common to grow up in schools "pledging allegiance" to this red white and blue piece of material. how do we fully and completely detect the value? I've never been in any war, I never had to defend my freedom. after learning that the flag represents a way of life that I love,.now I can start to detect the value. I can see that the flag is a symbol of that freedom. the cost of that freedom was and is high. Does cost affect value? do Cost and value rise equally? at what point does cost reduce value? is value strictly a matter of the person considering? 









